---
up:
  - "[[SY2324 Data Structures and Algorithms|SY2324 Data Structures and Algorithms]]"
created: 2023-10-27
type: University Note
Subject: Data Structures and Algorithms
Teacher: Marygin Sarmiento
School Year: SY2324
tags:
  - School
aliases:
  - Algorithm Analysis
publish: "true"
---
# ALGORITHM ANALYSIS
Created: October 27, 2023 (Friday); 06:52 PM
Modified: March 04, 2024 (Monday); 4:42 AM
***
%%
changes:: [[2023-10-27|2023-10-27]]
%%
- **Algorithm[^1] Analysis** is the theoretical study of computer program's performance and resource usage.
- **Algorithm** is a finite[^2] set of instructions or logic. It is not the complete code or program but rather is *just the core logic (solution) of a problem*. It can be presented through flowcharts or pseudo-code. It is the *blueprint* of the program.
- **CRITERIA FOR ALGORITHM:**
	- Input - preparing or planning everything you need before you do the program.
	- Output - it generates a set called the range of the algorithm. For every input, there is an output.
	- Definiteness - instruction must be clear and precisely defined.
	- Finiteness - there is an exact number of steps to be executed. If you have ten statements, then the program should stop after the 10th steps.
	- Correctness or Effectiveness - instruction must be sufficiently basic. It must also generate a correct output.
- **Time Complexity** of Algorithms refers to the time consumed to read the program. It signifies the total time required by the program to run till its completion. You are after the performance of the processor rathen than the performance of algorithms.
	- Best Case - fewest number of instructions are executed. There is no error in your programs, or few can be found.
	- Average Case - produce path lengths that will on average be the same. There are errors that can be found, but they are identified.
	- Worst Case - produce path lengths that are always a maximum. You are limiting the program to stop if a number of errors is found.
- A program is not a program if it's not complete.
- The `big O notation`[^3]
- **TYPES OF NOTATION FOR TIME COMPLEXITY**
	1. Big Oh
	2. Big Omega
	3. Big Theta
	4. Little Oh
	5. Little Omega
- O(expression) is the set of functions that grow slower than or at the same rate as expression. Counting the number of commands/steps/statements, and identifying which uses fewer statements.
- Omega(Expression) means more function, mas nakakatipid.
- Theta(expressioin) also uses function
- **Complexity Theory** or **computational complexity** is the measure of the amount of computing resources (time and space[^4]) that a particular algorithm consumes when it runs.
- **Space complexity** refers to the amount of working storage an algorithm need
- **CALCULATING THE *TIME COMPLEXITY***
	- Break your algorithm into individual operations.
	- Calculate the Big O (means observation) of each operation.
	- Add up the Big O of each operation together.
	- Remove the constants.
	- Find the highest order term. %% Big O of n. See the slides. %%
- **CALCULATING THE *SPACE COMPLEXITY***


[^1]: Something to do with a step-by-step procedure.
[^2]: There is an exact number of instructions.
[^3]: O stands for Observation.
[^4]: Referring to the storage.