---
up:
  - "[[SY2324 Quantitative Methods with Modeling and Simulation|SY2324 Quantitative Methods with Modeling and Simulation]]"
created: 2024-03-13
type: University Note
Subject: Quantitative Methods with Modeling and Simulation
Teacher: 
School Year: SY2324
tags: []
aliases:
  - Orientation in Quantitative Methods with Modeling and Simulation
publish: "true"
---
# Orientation in Quantitative Methods with Modeling and Simulation
Created: March 13, 2024 (Wednesday); 07:23 PM</br>
Modified: March 13, 2024 (Wednesday); 11:26 PM
***
%% 
changes:: [[2024-03-13|2024-03-13]]
%%
> [!info] Prof-specific
> **Note:** Read only if we have the same professor in this subject (Sir Ranil). If not, please disregard.
> 
> - Always pumasok ng maaga (strict si sir when it comes to punctuality).
> - Allowed kumain sa time ni Sir.
> - If a-absent ka, mali-late, or nawala sa meeting, need mo mag-email kay Sir (use your webmail account) specifying the reasons.
> - To acknowledge kung ano sinasabi ni Sir, you can type the word "bump" or use bump emoji in the chatbox.
> - Everytime na magkakaroon ng assignment, expect na magkakaroon ng random call sa synchronous meeting.
> - It is highly encouraged to ask question if may tanong ka, this also means na you're learning and listening.
> - It is highly discouraged na mag-ask ng breakdown ng grades. If need mo talaga, you have to ask in a respectful way.
> 
> **Side note:** I excluded some information above since nasa pdf file naman na yung iba na diniscuss ni Sir (e.g., grading system, course outline, tools, etc.), so I suggest na tingnan mo rin yung pdf file na sinend ni Sir sa GClass.</br>
> **Contributors:** Thanks pressy nem for your notes :)

This subject is similar but quite different with the quantitative research subject that you took noong SHS. This one focuses more on the business side of things, while the latter deals with introducing solutions in wide range of problems.

*Why focus on business?*

Simply, IT is a business course. To create a company, there are various things or elements that you need: physical structure (e.g., building, facilities, rooms), infrastructure (e.g., computer networks, database, accounts), the owner, and HR. So basically, every company, maliit man or malaki, ay nangangailangan ng IT professional. Moreover, by having an IT professional, your business has the opportunity to grow more.

Expect that in this subject, you will improve your skill in using Excel. Additionally, it is suggested to download SpeedCrunch on this [site](https://heldercorreia.bitbucket.io/speedcrunch/).