---
up:
  - "[[SY2324 Information Management|SY2324 Information Management]]"
created: 2024-03-22
type: University Note
Subject: Information Management
Teacher: 
School Year: SY2324
tags:
  - School
aliases:
  - Database Concept
publish: "true"
---
# Database Concept
Created: March 22, 2024 (Friday); 12:56 PM </br>
Modified: April 01, 2024 (Monday); 5:37 AM
***
# Data vs. Information

## Data

> [!info] What is DATA?
> - In common usage, data is a **collection of discrete or continuous values** that convey information, describing the quantity, quality, fact, statistics, other basic units of meaning, or simply sequences of symbols that may be further interpreted formally.
> - It is **facts, text, graphics, images, sound, video segments.**
> - In computing, data is **information that has been translated into a form that is efficient** for movement or processing.

Sa exam, syempre yung definition above yung need natin tandaan. But if we just want to understand it, data simply means *raw facts*. Kasama na rin dito yung mga texts, images, sounds, etc. As long as *hindi pa sya napa-process*, we can consider that as data.

**CATEGORIES OF DATA:**

- Unstructured Data
- Structured Data

As it name implies, 'pag sinabing **unstructured data**, *wala syang predefined data model or structure.* So, mas mahirap syang i-process at i-analyze. Examples nito ay customer information, product catalogs, and financial records.

When we say **structured data** naman, these are information na *naka-organized na in a predefined way.* Included dito yung data na nakalagay sa mga tables with rows and columns. Usually syang makikita na ginagamit sa relational database. Since naka-organized na nga yung data, mas madali syang i-access, manage, at analyze.

Question: If organized na yung data sa structured data, then does that mean na pwede syang i-consider as information? Nope. Naka-organize lang sya at hindi sya considered as processed. Pag ginamit lang natin yung data na 'yon to create something, doon lang natin sya mako-consider as information.

TLDR: Ang pinagkaiba ng structured at unstructured data ay yung isa, naka-ayos or organized na. While yung unstructured data, hindi pa naka-ayos at gulo-gulo pa sya.

## Information

> [!info] What is INFORMATION?
> - It is defined as classified or organized data that **has some meaningful value** for the user.
> - It is also the **processed data** used to make decisions and take action.
> - Processed data must meet the following **criteria** for it to be of any significant use in decision-making:
> 	- **Accuracy**: The information must be accurate.
> 	- **Completeness**: The information must be complete.
> 	- **Timeliness**: The information must be available when it's needed.

So basically, kapag pinrocess na yung data, it is called information. Dapat may meaning, value, insights, etc. syang maipo-provide; may pakinabang sya. Pwede natin sya magamit when it comes to decision-making.

## Processing Data into Information

Depende sa source, iba-iba yung number of steps sa pag-process ng data. But here, there are six steps how data are turned into information.

> Collection ➜ Preparation ➜ Input ➜ Processing ➜ Output ➜ Storage

Step 1: **Collection.** Syempre una sa lahat, kailangan mo munang kolektahin lahat ng data na kakailanganin mo.

Step 2: **Preparation.** Ito yung step where we sort and filter the raw data para tanggalin yung mga hindi kailangan at inaccurate data. Because of this, we can remove bad data and create high-quality information.

Step 3: **Input.** Dito, kino-convert yung raw data into machine readable form and fed into the processing unit. Kasama rito yung pag-type ng data sa keyboard, using scanner, or other input source. I guess, this step is more on data na involved si computer, etc.

Step 4: **Processing.** Using methods like machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms, ipa-process na yung data para makuha natin yung desired output na gusto natin.

Step 5: **Output.** Dito na idi-display kay user yung information into readable form, like graphs, tables, video, documents, etc.

Step 6: **Storage.** Sa step na 'to, instead of getting rid of the data and metadata after natin syang gamitin, we can just store it for further use. By storing it, mabilis natin maa-access yung information kapag kailangan, and we can also use it as input sa susunod na mag-process tayo ng data.
# Database and Database Management System

> [!info] What is DATABASE?
> - Central repository of shared data
> - Data is managed by a controlling agent
> - Stored in a standardized, convenient form
> - Requires a Database Management System (DBMS)

> [!info] What is Database Management System (DBMS)?
> - is a collection of programs that enables users to create and maintain a database;
> - a general purpose software system that facilitates the processes of defining, constructing, manipulating, and sharing databases among various users and applications
>

In simple explanation, si **database** is yung pinaglalagyan ng mga data. It's just a container. On the other hand, **DBMS** is yung software na ginagamit natin para ma-access yung mga data sa database natin or mag-perform ng various operations related sa database.

# Components of Database Environment

We can just say that the interaction of the following terms is called a **database environment**. It is simply a system.

- **Database Management System (DBMS)** - software for managing the database
- **Database** - storehouse of the data
- **Repository** - centralized storehouse of metadata
- **CASE Tools** - computer-aided software engineering
- **Application Programs** - software using the data
- **User Interface** - text and graphical displays to users
- **Data Administrators** - personnel responsible for maintaining the database
- **System Developers** - personnel responsible for designing databases and software
- **End Users** - people who use the applications and databases

