---
up:
  - "[[SY2324 Integrative Programming and Technologies 1|SY2324 Integrative Programming and Technologies 1]]"
created: 2024-03-25
type: University Note
Subject: Integrative Programming and Technologies 1
Teacher: Marygin Sarmiento
School Year: SY2324
tags: 
aliases:
  - Intro to PyCharm IDE
publish: "true"
---
# Intro to PyCharm IDE
Created: March 25, 2024 (Monday); 03:54 PM </br>
Modified: April 01, 2024 (Monday); 6:08 AM
***

> [!warning] NOTE
> Tinamad na kong gawan ng note yung lesson na 'to since parang eme-eme lang din naman ni Ma'am yung lesson nya HAHAHAHA. And for sure, wala na naman 'tong tinuro nya sa deptals, so kinopya ko na lang sa PPT nya yung nakalagay here. </br>
> I excluded some info, like yung interface ng PyCharm kineme, so tingnan nyo pa rin yung PPT nya if kailangan.


The PyCharm IDE is one of the most popular editors used by professional Python developers and programmers. The vast number of PyCharm features doesn't make this IDE difficult to use–just the opposite. Many of the features help make PyCharm a great Python IDE for beginners.


# Advantages of PyCharm

1. **Performance.** When using PyCharm to run a Python project, it uses a significant amount of RAM. Depending on the size of the project, it can easily use at least 1 GB, whereas VS Code uses RAM in MBs and is less memory intensive.
2. **Extensibility.** There are literally several plugins available to complete a single task. It has out-of-the-box plugins.
3. **Learning Curve.** PyCharm's user interface has a more app-like feel. PyCharm interface is clean and simple. It is quite simple to open the code editor and begin creating the first PyCharm project. The new functionalities offered by PyCharm might not appeal to seasoned developers.
4. **Price.** PyCharm from JetBrain comes in three versions. The professional edition for individuals, for example, has yearly fees of $89 for the first year, $71 for the second, and $53 for the third year and beyond. The professional edition for businesses has a one-year price of $199, a two-year price of $159, and a subsequent price of $119.

	Both the PyCharm Community and the Edu Editions are open source. Both versions, however, are deficient in several features, including database support, a Python profiler, support for remote development, duplicate code detection, and various web development tools.

5. **Code Completion and Highlighting.** The PyCharm IDE offers a real-time syntax-checking tool that, despite using a lot of memory, enables you to run syntax checks as you type your code, identify problems in real time, and complete them.
6. **Code Management.** PyCharm delivers a range of tools all in one product, beneficial to any programmer working with python applications or scripts as well as web development using web frameworks like Django or Flask.

	Code completion, smart indenting, debugging support (through PyCharm Debugger), and best for beginners are some of the features. Git, an integrated version control system in PyCharm, is incredibly useful when you're working on software in a collaborative environment.

7. **Refactoring.** It provides support for functions such as class definition, file variable renaming, debugging, function extraction, goto function definition, etc. Its refactoring feature is extremely powerful, making development simpler and requiring less work from developers when modifying or upgrading existing codes.
8. **Cross Platform Compatibility.** PyCharm can use on your desktop at home and your laptop while traveling because they are both available for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux.
9. **Memory Usage.** You want to pick a tool that will work smoothly on your computer system without causing it to lag, use little RAM, and take up little space. Approximately 372MB must be downloaded to download PyCharm's community edition, which may not seem like much. However, PyCharm uses roughly 400MB of memory when we use it on a computer, which is a considerable amount in our opinion.
10. **Initial Setup.** PyCharm installation is relatively simple, its just need to examine and download several extensions, including Python, Python Indent, Python Snippets, and others, to build up VS Code according to your Python needs. However, doing so allows you greater control over the composition, activities, and appearance of your workplace.
11. **Database Integration.** You can access databases like MySQL, Oracle and others from within PyCharm by using a plugin called Database Navigator. You can establish a database connection, send queries to a database, receive database objects, and more using the PyCharm Database Navigator.
12. **Git Integration.** To store and edit their projects, developers require a version or source control system. The app allows you to do a variety of things using Git, like build a new repository, clone an existing repository, open an existing repository, stage changes, commit changes, check out to a different branch, and create pull requests.