---
up:
  - "[[SY2324 Data Structures and Algorithms|SY2324 Data Structures and Algorithms]]"
created: 2023-11-07
type: University Note
Subject: Data Structures and Algorithms
Teacher: Marygin Sarmiento
School Year: SY2324
tags:
  - School
  - develop
aliases:
  - Algorithm
  - Psuedo-code
  - Flowchart
  - Array
publish: "true"
---
# ALGORITHM
Created: November 07, 2023 (Tuesday); 05:51 PM
Modified: March 04, 2024 (Monday); 5:07 AM
***
%%
changes:: [[2023-11-07|2023-11-07]]
%%
- It is a finite sequence of instructions used to solve specific problems or perform computation.
- It's not the program itself but rather the set of instuctions.

# PSUEDO CODES
- A textual presentation of flowchart.
- May become part of the program documentation.

# FLOWCHART
- A visual representation of the sequence of steps and decisions needed to perform a process.

# ARRAY
- A container which can hold a fix number of items with the same type.
- Element - items stored in the array.
- Index - location of the element in an array

## BASIC OPERATION
- Traverse
- Insertion
- Deletion
- Search
- Update

## TYPES OF ARRAY
- Single Array
- Two-Dimensional Array

## CALCULATING THE ADDRESS
- Single Array
$$
\mathbf{Address\;of\;A[X] = B + W \times{(X - LB)}}
\begin{align}
\text{where:}\\
\text{B} &= \text{base address}\\
\text{W} &= \text{interval}\\
\text{X} &= \text{address to be found}\\
\text{LB} &=  \text{lower limit/bound of subscript, 0 if not found}
\end{align}
$$
- Two-Dimensional Aray
	- **ROW MAJOR SYSTEM:** $\mathbf{Address\; of\; A[I][J] = B + W \times{[N \times{(I - Lr) +  (J - Lc)}]}}$
	- **COLUMN MAJOR SYSTEM:** $\mathbf{Address\; of\; A[I][J] = B + W \times{[(I - Lr) + M \times{(J - Lc)}]}}$

$$
\begin{align}
\text{where:}\\
\text{B} &= \text{base address; beginning location}\\
\text{I} &= \text{row subscript of the element to be found}\\
\text{J} &= \text{column subscript of the element to be found}\\
\text{W} &= \text{interval; byte of storage}\\
\text{Lr} &= \text{lower limit of row subscript, 0 if not specified}\\
\text{Lc} &= \text{lower limit of column subscript, 0 if not specified}\\
\text{M} &= \text{number of rows}\\
\text{N} &= \text{number of columns}\\
\end{align}
$$
- If the number of rows and columns are not given. For instance, $A[Lr---Ur,\; Lc---Uc]$. It is calculated using the following formula.
	- $\text{Number of rows } \mathbf{(M) = (Ur - Lr) + 1}$
	- $\text{Number of columns }\mathbf{(N) = (Uc - Lc) + 1}$
